In this video we'll explain some of the concepts behind virtual networking and how our virtual machines
can connect to other resources either within the same ESX host or possibly even resources connected
to our physical network.
So how do virtual machines actually handle transmitting and receiving network traffic.
Well in many ways they work exactly the same way that a physical machine does.
So here we see a virtual machine and it has a network interface card just like any other network connected
machine.
But in this case we're dealing with a virtual Nic.
Now our guest operating system in this case Windows has no idea that the virtual on deck is not an actual
hardware device.
Right.
Windows just sees a network interface card and from the perspective of the guest operating system that's
really the end of the story.
So Windows sends some packet to the virtual neck and my virtual neck.
And just like a physical Nic would my virtual Nic needs to connect to a switch so our virtual machines
will connect to a virtual machine port group on a virtual switch and the port group is used to use to
define settings like relay and membership and security policies and stuff like that.
And my ESX I host also has physical interfaces but my traffic doesn't necessarily need to flow over
a physical interface.
If I've got multiple virtual machines connect to the same port group they can communicate without their
traffic ever flowing over a physical network.
And then of course my ESX I host itself has some physical network interfaces that connects to a physical
switch.
These are called V.M. next.
And if my traffic needs to flow to the Internet or to some physical server it will do so using these
VM nics or physical adapters.
So a VM Nic is basically an uplink for a virtual switch that gives that connectivity to the actual physical
network.
But overture machine port groups are really only half the story.
My VM groups are for all of my virtual machine traffic everything else is going to be handled by a VM
Critchlow port.
Right so the virtual machine port groups are kind of like ports on a physical switch that a PC would
connect to our server would connect to whereas VM kernel ports are special types of ports on a virtual
switch that are used for traffic like Wii motion or IP storage or management.
These are ports that the hosts and vse center use to talk amongst themselves for purposes other than
virtual machine traffic.
And then our hosts and our virtual switches also support villans and they support trunk ports as well.
Right.
So for example let's say I've got two virtual machines here.
The virtual machine on top is connected to a port group with the Leontine assigned to it.
So my VM on the top of my diagram here is connected to a group that has Vilda antenna signed and my
V.M. The bottom is connected to a different group with a different Vili's on a side.
So as traffic flows into the virtual switch from my VM on the top of the screen it's going to hit a
port group that's tagged with Vili antenne.
And if that VM is trying to communicate with the other VM that traffic is actually going to have to
flow out the physical network to a switch hit a router that can route between villans and eventually
that traffic will flow back in.
And that's kind of how our Valene segmentation works with a virtual switch is each VM will connects
to a port group.
Those poor groups will have villans defined and we will have a trunk port to a physical switch that
is able to handle traffic across multiple villans on a single physical connection.
That way the physical switch can actually see a consistent set of violence and can see which virtual
machine traffic belongs on which we plan as that traffic arrives.
So for the purposes of the VM or certified associate exam you really want to understand that there are
these things called Virtual switches that exist within the ESX I host and on them we've got virtual
machine scripts and each virtual machine is going to be equipped with a virtual neck.
And you may have heard some of the options there like a VM x three virtual network interface card.
Those are going to provide connectivity to the virtual machine port groups on the virtual switches.
It's basically like having a fake switch running inside of your ESX host that interconnects all of those
VMs on that host.
And also applies V LAN tagging and security policies based on those poor group memberships.
Then we've also got these special ports on the virtual switches called V.M. kernel ports and this is
another important concept for the example VM kernel ports are used for management traffic storage traffic
the motion traffic.